lib: modem_slm: Add lib_modem_slm (#9977)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/modem/modem_slm.rst

.. _lib_modem_slm:

Modem SLM
#########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Modem SLM library exposes the AT command interface of the Serial LTE Modem (:ref:`slm_description`) for external devices over a serial interface.

> This library is for applications running on external MCU built with nRF Connect SDK and connected to nRF9160 SiP through UART.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This library is for applications running on external MCU built with |NCS| and connected to nRF9160 SiP through UART.
```
Convention, in case the name ever needs to change.

Overview
********

> The Modem SML library allows you to perform the following functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Modem SLM library allows you to perform the following functions:
```
Noticed a typo here.

Optionally configure the following Kconfig options based on need:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_SHELL` - Enables the shell function in the Modem SLM library, which is not enabled by default.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_INDICATE_PIN` - Configures the optional indicator GPIO, which is not configured by default.

The application must use Zephyr chosen nodes in devicetree to select UART device. For example:

.. code-block:: devicetree

   / {
      chosen {
         ncs,slm-uart = &uart1;
      };
   };

Use one of the following options to select the termination character:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CR_TERMINATION` - Enables ``<CR>`` as the termination character.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_LF_TERMINATION` - Enables ``<LF>`` as the termination character.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CR_LF_TERMINATION` - Enables ``<CR+LF>`` as the termination character, which is selected by default.

You must configure the same termination character as that configured in SLM on nRF9160 SiP.
The library sends the termination character automatically after an AT command.

> Shell Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shell usage
```

***********

To send AT commands in shell, use the following syntax:

  .. code-block:: console

     uart:~$ slm AT%XPTW=4,\"0001\"

     OK

     uart:~$ slm at%ptw?

     %XPTW: 4,"0001"
     %XPTW: 5,"0011"

     OK

SLM accepts AT command characters in upper, lower, or mixed case.

> SLM Monitor Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SLM Monitor usage
```

.. _lib_modem_slm:

Modem SLM
#########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Modem SLM library exposes the AT command interface of the Serial LTE Modem (:ref:`slm_description`) for external devices over a serial interface.
This library is for applications running on external MCU built with nRF Connect SDK and connected to nRF9160 SiP through UART.

Overview
********

The Modem SML library allows you to perform the following functions:

* Manage the serial interface so that the application only decides which UART device to use and configures its DTS.
* Manage the GPIO pins, with support for bidirectional indication and wakeup.

> * Send modem or SLM proprietary AT commands, receive response and notification, similar to the :ref:`lib_at_host` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Send modem or SLM proprietary AT commands, receive responses and notifications, similar to the :ref:`lib_at_host` library.
```

* Send raw data in SLM data mode.

> * Monitor AT notification with registered callbacks, similar to the :ref:`at_monitor_readme` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monitor AT notifications with registered callbacks, similar to the :ref:`at_monitor_readme` library.
```

* Send AT commands via UART or RTT shell, similar to the :ref:`lib_at_shell` library.

> A received AT response or notification can be parsed by the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A received AT response or notification can be parsed by the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
```
Two spaces in the beginning so it is included in the bullet above.

Configuration
*************

The library is enabled and configured entirely using the Kconfig system.

Configure the following Kconfig options to enable this library:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM` - Enables the Modem SLM library.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_WAKEUP_PIN` - Configures the mandatory wake-up GPIO, which is not configured by default.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_WAKEUP_TIME` - Sets the toggle time value in milliseconds for wake-up GPIO, by default 100ms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_WAKEUP_TIME` - Sets the toggle time value in milliseconds for wake-up GPIO, by default 100 ms.
```

Optionally configure the following Kconfig options based on need:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_SHELL` - Enables the shell function in the Modem SLM library, which is not enabled by default.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_INDICATE_PIN` - Configures the optional indicate GPIO, which is not configured by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_INDICATE_PIN` - Configures the optional indicator GPIO, which is not configured by default.
```

.. _lib_modem_slm:

Modem SLM
#########

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Modem SLM library exposes the AT command interface of the Serial LTE Modem (:ref:`slm_description`) for external devices over a serial interface. This library is for applications running on external MCU, which is built with nRF Connect SDK. And the MCU is connected to nRF9160 SiP through UART.

Functions
*********

* Manage the serial interface so that the application only decides UART instance to use and configures its DTS.
* Manage the GPIO pins and support bi-directional indication/wakeup.

> * Send modem or SLM proprietary AT commands and receive response/notification, similar to :ref:`lib_at_host`.

Author: proprietary means AT commands defined by SLM here

* Send raw data in SLM data mode.

> * Monitoring AT notification with registered callbacks, similar to :ref:`at_monitor_readme`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Monitor AT notification with registered callbacks, similar to the :ref:`at_monitor_readme` library.
```

> * Received AT response or notification can be parsed by :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  A received AT response or notification can be parsed by the :ref:`at_cmd_parser_readme` library.
```
Makes this a second line for the previous bullet, since it's not technically something this library does itself, but is related to the previous function.

> * Send AT commands via UART or RTT shell, similar to :ref:`lib_at_shell`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Send AT commands via UART or RTT shell, similar to the :ref:`lib_at_shell` library.
```

Configuration
*************

The library is enabled and configured entirely using the Kconfig system.

> The external serial port to use, the termination character, and other parameters are configurable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure which external serial port to use, the termination character, and other parameters.
```

> The various configuration options used in the library are listed below:

Reviewer: All of these bullets should end with a period since they are full sentences.

Could you also separate them so this line reads:
```suggestion
Configure the following Kconfig options to enable this library:
```
With the options that must be configured listed under it.
And then optional configurations have their own introductory sentence.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM` - Enables the Modem SLM library

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_SHELL` - Enables the shell function in the Modem SLM library, by default not enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_SHELL` - Enables the shell function in the Modem SLM library, which is not enabled by default.
```

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_WAKEUP_PIN` - Configures the mandatory wake-up GPIO
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_WAKEUP_TIME` - Sets the toggle time value in milliseconds for wake-up GPIO, by default 100ms
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_INDICATE_PIN` - Configures the optional indicate GPIO, by default not configured

Configuration options for select UART instance to use for the serial interface.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CONNECT_UART_0` - Uses UART_0
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CONNECT_UART_1` - Uses UART_1

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CONNECT_UART_2` - Uses UART_2

Author: Those configurations have been removed.
Will be reflected in next commit.

> Configuration options for setting the termination character:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use one of the following options to select the termination character:
```

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CR_TERMINATION` - Enables ``<CR>`` as the termination character
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_LF_TERMINATION` - Enables ``<LF>`` as the termination character
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_SLM_CR_LF_TERMINATION` - Enables ``<CR+LF>`` as the termination character

> User must configure the same choice of termination character as configured in SLM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure the same termination character as configured in SLM.
```

The library sends the termination character automatically after an AT command.

Shell Usage
***********

To send AT commands in shell, use the following syntax:

  .. code-block:: console

     uart:~$ slm AT%XPTW=4,\"0001\"

     OK

     uart:~$ slm at%ptw?

     %XPTW: 4,"0001"
     %XPTW: 5,"0011"

     OK

> SLM accept AT command characters in either lower or upper (or mixed) case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SLM accepts AT command characters in upper, lower, or mixed case.
```

SLM Monitor Usage
*****************

> The SLM Monitor resembles the functions of :ref:`at_monitor_readme`, except "Direct dispatching".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SLM Monitor has similar functions to the :ref:`at_monitor_readme` library, except "Direct dispatching".
```
